---
layout: post
title: Open Build Service version 2.7 released
category: releases
---

We are happy to announce the availability of the Open Build Service Version 2.7!
Three large features around the topic of integrating external resources made it into this
release. We worked on automatic tracking of moving repositories of development
versions like Fedora Rawhide, distribution updates or rolling Linux releases
like Arch. A change to the [OBS git
integration](http://openbuildservice.org/2016/04/08/new_git_in_27/) to enable
developers to work on continuous builds. And last but not least an experimental
KIWI import that can be used to easily migrate your images from SUSE studio.

Our awesome community has been busy with this release. Since OBS 2.6 there have
been over 2000 commits, changing over a 1.000 files with nearly 9.000 additions
and 16.000 deletions!

Additional to these three main features OBS 2.7 brings a lot of smaller, more
isolated features. The OBS backend now has support for the  [simpleimage](http://openbuildservice.org/help/manuals/obs-reference-guide/cha.obs.package_formats.html#idm139812048191664)
format to produce simple rootfs or squashfs images and can build packages in the
collax format, which is a variation of deb. Additionally it supports build time
source services that get executed before the package build tool (eg. rpm-build).

The OBS frontend makes it possible to enforce removal of projects with
dependencies, restricts superseding requests to the same source project
and allows to pick only certain requests to supersede.

If you are interested in more details check out the
[2.7 Release Notes](https://github.com/openSUSE/open-build-service/blob/2.7/ReleaseNotes-2.7).
It is also recommended to read these before updating your OBS instance!

## Try OBS 2.7
The latest OBS version version is always deployed to our reference server. You
can try it out there.
{% include reference_server.inc %}

## Install 2.7
Please read our [setup instructions](https://github.com/openSUSE/open-build-service/tree/2.7#installation)
or better yet, use our [appliance](http://openbuildservice.org/download/)

<span style="color: red">WARNING:</span> OBS 2.7 will be the last release
supporting SUSE Linux Enterprise Server 11 as base operating system.

## Update to 2.7
If you already have a running OBS installation and want to update it, please
read also the
[README.UPDATERS](https://github.com/openSUSE/open-build-service/blob/2.7/dist/README.UPDATERS)
file about the necessary steps.

OBS Appliance users who have setup their LVM according to
[our documentation](http://openbuildservice.org/download/#appliance_config) can
just replace their appliance image without data loss. The migration will happen
automatically.

## About the Open Build Service
{% include about.inc %}
