---
layout: post
title: Open Build Service Version 2.8 Released
category: releases
---

The Build Service Team is happy to announce to release of Open Build Service 2.8! We've been hard at work to bring you many new features to the UI, the API and the backend. The UI has undergone several handy improvements including the filtering of the projects list based on a configurable regular expresion and the ability to download a project's gpg key and ssl certificate (also available via the API). The API has been fine-tuned to allow more control over users including locking or deleting them from projects as well as declaring users to be sub-accounts of other users. The backend now includes new features such as mulibuild - the ability to build multiple jobs from a single source package without needing to create local links. Worker tracking and management has also been enhanced along with the new obsservicedispatch service which handles sources in an asynchronous queue. Published packages can now be removed using the osc unpublish command.

For a more detailed look at whats new in 2.8 please check out the [release notes](https://github.com/openSUSE/open-build-service/blob/2.8/ReleaseNotes-2.8).
## Try OBS 2.8
The latest OBS version version is always deployed to our reference server. You can try it out there.

{% include reference_server.inc %}
## Install 2.8
Please read our [setup instructions](https://github.com/openSUSE/open-build-service/tree/2.8#installation)
or better yet, use our [appliance](http://openbuildservice.org/download/).

## Upgrade to 2.8
If you already have a running OBS installation and want to update it, please read also the [README.UPDATERS](https://github.com/openSUSE/open-build-service/blob/2.8/dist/README.UPDATERS) file about the necessary steps.

OBS Appliance users who have setup their LVM according to our [documentation](http://openbuildservice.org/download/#appliance_config) can just replace their appliance image without data loss. The migration will happen automatically.

## About the Open Build Service
{% include about.inc %}
