---
layout: post
title: Beta of Version 2.10 Released
category: releases
---

We have released the beta of the upcoming Open Build Service (OBS) version 2.10.

This version is the first one with the revamped user interface.
For details on this, please refer to our blog where we have written a
[series of post](https://openbuildservice.org/2018/10/05/revamping-ui/) on the matter.

## Known Issues

None.

## New Features

* Add binary release tracking data for containers
* Add support to collect performance metrics with InfluxDB
* Amazon EC2/ Microsoft Azure cloud upload support
* Text fields are stored as 4 byte UTF-8 which allows to use emojis. To use this
  feature, switch database.yml to utf8mb4 encoding
* Added `beta` environment in 'config/feature.yml' to toggle features in the beta program
* Bugowners of a project/package now receive notifications about new comments
* Request pre-approval. Requests will be accepted when last review gets accepted
* Support webhooks from gitlab
* Send requests creation to rabbitmq bus
* Admins can write Terms of Services, via the API, and they will be shown in the WebUI to
  users unless they acknowledge them

## Incompatible Changes

* The 'commenter' and 'commenters' payload of Comment events used to contain user ids.
  They now contain the user login name instead.
  Run the data migrations to convert events in the old format:
  'rails data:migrate RAILS_ENV=production'

## Other Changes

* Messages (for projects/packages) deprecated. The API routes
  below /message/ are deprecated and will be removed in the next
  version.
* Deprecated Ratings. The following API routes are deprecated and will be removed
  in the next version:
  - GET /statistics/highest_rated?limit=&lt;limit&gt;
  - GET /statistics/rating/&lt;project&gt;/&lt;package&gt;
  - PUT /statistics/rating/&lt;project&gt;/&lt;package&gt;
* Switch most frontend services from sysv init scripts to systemd units (obs-api-support.target)

{% include partials/_release-more-information.md link_name='2.10 Release Notes' link_url='https://github.com/openSUSE/open-build-service/blob/2.10/ReleaseNotes-2.10' %}

{% include partials/_release-how-to-install.md version='2.10' %}

{% include partials/_release-how-to-update.md version='2.10' %}

## About the Open Build Service
{% include about.inc %}
